---
layout: post
title: SQUID
date: 2023-06-14
author: Weird Kitty
tags: 
  - UsefulStuff 
  - SQUID
toc:  true
---

# MPMS SQUID Magnetometer
_This is a guide on how to center the sample in MPMS SQUID Magnetometer with RSO mode before your actual measurement._

<mark>Click</mark> is when you need to click the bottom on the Computer.

1. **Sample Removal:**
   
    On computer: top bar <mark>Sample<mark/> -> <mark>Remove</mark>

    On SQUID:
   
    1. Lower the black knob, twist, such that it connects to the black wire that is attached to the sample plate.
    2. Pull the knob + wire up.
    3. _Close sample chamber (turn the black knob on the chamber to close)_
    4. Pull sample tube out, and swap with the cap (make sure SQUID will not be contaminated).
    5. Swap samples on the sample plate. 

    Optional on computer: <mark>Sample</mark> -> <mark>Remove vent</mark>

3. **Sample loading:**
   
    On SQUID:
   
    1. Swap sample tube with the black cap.
    2. Purge 3 times.
    3. Open sample chamber, and purge again.
    4. Lower the sample, turn the black knob to release the sample. 

    On computer: <mark>Sample</mark> -> <mark>Finished</mark>.

   Input sample descriptions. 
 
4. **Centering: (for small samples)**

    <mark>Set field</mark>: set field to <mark>10,000</mark> -> <mark>no overshoot</mark>, <mark>HiRes</mark>

    <mark>RSO centering</mark>:
    1. <mark>Parameter</mark> -> <mark>6cm</mark>
    2. <mark>Initialize transport</mark>
    3. <mark>Center</mark>
    4. <mark>Adjust position</mark> -> <mark>auto adjust</mark>  (want center to be 3cm)
    5. <mark>Parameter</mark> -> <mark>3cm</mark>
    6. <mark>Adjust position</mark> -> <mark>auto adjust</mark>  (until the center is at 1.5cm, at least < 1.55cm)
    7. <mark>Close</mark> 
    
    _If not successful, lower temperature to base, and try again._

    _Want to use 3cm for RSO scans, want to use 6cm for DC scans._

5. **Set Temperature**
    1. Run sequence: any Degauss sequence.
    2. Set <mark>100K</mark> with <mark>-5K/min</mark>.
    3. Lower to your target temperature, and start your actual scan.
 
[PDF Version](/_posts/PostFile/squid.pdf)
